“If it sounds too good to be true,
it probably is.”
This familiar saying might be true
with human promises,
but it’s certainly not true
with promises from Jehovah.
They always come true.
Just before his death at the age of 110,
Joshua reminded the Israelites
why Jehovah’s promises
can always be trusted.
He said: “Not one word
out of all the good promises
“that Jehovah your God
has spoken to you has failed.
They have all come true for you.”
Among all of Jehovah’s good promises
are the heartwarming restoration promises
given to the Jews returning
from exile in Babylon.
Since the land of Judah
had lain desolate for 70 years,
the Jews wouldn’t have expected brand
new homes waiting for them to occupy
or fields ready for them to harvest.
There would be much work
for them to do once they arrived.
There were many unknowns
about their future,
which could have caused some to worry,
or to be anxious.
Some family heads might have wondered:
‘Where will we live?
How will I feed my family
and keep them safe?’
Jehovah calmed their hearts
with the reassuring promises
recorded at Isaiah 65:21, 22.
Let’s read these together.
That’s Isaiah 65:21, 22,
and there it reads:
“They will build houses
and live in them,
“and they will plant vineyards
and eat their fruitage.
“They will not build
for someone else to inhabit,
“nor will they plant for others to eat.
“For the days of my people
will be like the days of a tree,
and the work of their hands
my chosen ones will enjoy to the full.”
These promises
must have strengthened the Jews.
Now, Jehovah didn’t say that ‘they might
build and live in their own homes,
and they might  enjoy the fruitage
from their own vineyards.’
No, he told his precious chosen ones
that they will  enjoy
these promises to the full.
Even though they
hadn’t been told every detail
and there were many unknowns
regarding their future,
they knew their God, Jehovah.
They knew that his promises
were for their good
and that they would all come true.
And those promises did come true.
Knowing that God fulfilled
all of his promises in the past
strengthens our trust and confidence
that all of his promises for the future,
like the ones that we read in Isaiah 65,
will all come true for our everlasting good.
What a joy it will be to build
and then live in our own home,
never having to worry that we will lose it
because of a natural disaster
or economic collapse!
Sadly, though, many of our
brothers and sisters today
do suffer the harsh realities
of living in this old system of things.
For example,
a sister in Poland named Gabriela
experienced great loss when her home
was nearly destroyed by a flood.
How did she maintain her joy?
Notice what she said:
“I don’t want to talk about what I lost
—those are just material things.
“Rather, I want to tell you
how much I gained.
“This experience reassured me
“that being a part of the Christian
congregation is a unique privilege
as well as a source of joy and happiness.”
So although she went through some
very difficult times, what did she gain?
Joy and happiness.
But what about a single sister
from Puerto Rico named Anel?
She endured a very difficult test
back in 2017 when Hurricane Maria
destroyed her home.
As a result of that storm, she lost her job.
But notice what she recalled:
“During those difficult days,
I felt anxious
“but I learned to trust in Jehovah
through prayer
and not let anxiety paralyze me.”
She also said:
“Following the direction of the organization
helped me to remain calm.
“I saw Jehovah’s hand
in the spiritual encouragement I received
“as well as the material assistance
provided by the brotherhood.
“Jehovah gave me much more than
I could even ask for, and my faith
was greatly strengthened.”
So she received assistance from Jehovah
—from his organization—
and she was greatly strengthened.
What about you?
Are you suffering some sort of storm
in your life,
perhaps from a natural disaster
or maybe a figurative one
caused by a health issue,
a family problem,
or some injustice?
During such times,
it’s normal to experience
feelings of anxiety,
worry about our future,
the safety of our family.
But don’t allow such feelings
to paralyze you.
Like Gabriela and Anel,
keep doing what you can
and continue trusting in Jehovah.
Also, continue to trust
in our loving brotherhood.
Our brothers and sisters are true friends
who are ready to show love
in our time of distress.
They will quickly come to our aid
by providing practical assistance
and relief provisions.
They will help us rebuild our home
and rebuild our life.
They will build us up and stabilize us
with words of encouragement.
When we put our complete trust in Jehovah
and his promises,
we receive the best protection possible.
Note what the psalmist wrote
at Psalm 91:1, 2.
Psalm 91:1, 2 says:
“Anyone dwelling in the secret place
“of the Most High will lodge
under the shadow of the Almighty.
“I will say to Jehovah:
“‘You are my refuge and my stronghold,
my God in whom I trust.’”
What a beautiful reminder
of protection from Jehovah!
But what is
“the secret place of the Most High”?
Well, it’s a figurative place
of spiritual security and protection.
Those who dwell, or lodge,
with God as his personal guests
and remain there are safe from anything
or anyone that threatens their faith
and their love for God.
We can be sure that Jehovah
will never abandon those who trust in him
—not now, not ever.
As you watch the following video,
envision the secure future that lies ahead
when we will enjoy complete security.
Do you long for a home of your own?
Jehovah promised the returning exiles
that they would build
and enjoy comfortable dwellings.
Jehovah likewise cares for us,
whether we lose our home
or we’re taken from it.
Above all,
true worship provides spiritual security
that is found nowhere else.
The spiritual home we have now
reminds us that Jehovah will give us
a physical place to call home
in the new world.
“They will build houses and live in them.”
What a beautiful video!
It helps us imagine
what we will experience
in the near future
when all of God’s promises
become a reality on a paradise earth
and when we truly are safe
and cared for in every way
—physically, spiritually, and emotionally.
Would you like to read another
comforting promise from Jehovah?
It’s found at Isaiah 65:23.
And there it says:
“They will not toil for nothing,
“nor will they bear children for distress,
“because they are the offspring
made up of those blessed by Jehovah,
and their descendants with them.”
This must have brought
great comfort to the Jews.
And how comforting it is for us today!
In the new world,
all families will experience
Jehovah’s blessing
and enjoy the results of their hard work.
In the meantime,
if you have lost your home or possessions
or if you experience loss in the future,
keep focusing on Jehovah’s good promises.
Strong faith can help you
to weather any storm
—literal or figurative.
Trust that Jehovah will hear
and respond to your needs,
even anticipating them.
He promises to “open [his] hand
and satisfy the [proper] desire
of every living thing.”
That promise includes you and your family.
Continue to take delight
in all of God’s promises,
knowing that “not one word
out of all the good promises
“that Jehovah your God has spoken
to you has failed.
They [will] all come true for you.”
Brother Leonard Myers,
a helper to the Writing Committee,
will now present the next talk
of this symposium,
“Take Delight in God’s Promises of Peace
—‘The Wolf and the Lamb
Will Feed Together.’”